
#Ref: https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/current/zookeeperOver.html
#Ref: https://www.dezyre.com/article/zookeeper-and-oozie-hadoop-workflow-and-cluster-managers/216

Zookeeper
----------------------------
server-client application/ co-ordination service

elected ,aster / master-slave+observer architecture
master- it's the deamon process through which all the writes happens.
slave- it's a deamon process on another node machine. It's part of voting process for master.
Observer- It performs all the task as slave process except he is not involved in master voting.
----------------------------------------

Zookeeper is used for co-ordination of services.
Eg- Zookeeper is used to send & receive the heartbeat,Status,Configuration,Location,timestamps,ACL changes like small info is shared in Zookeeper znode & used while reading.

Whenever data changes in zookeeper it creates a folder vith version number & it increases with every change.  Zookeeper sends this version number to client while reading.

Watches- Zookeeper supports the concept of watches. We can set the watch on znode change. If znode is changed then watch is triggered and if connection between master and 
         zookeeper client is broken then znode will get a local alert.
		 

Zookeeper Goals / Guarantees-
Sequential Consistancy - Updates from a client will be applied in order they sent from client.
Atomicity - Updates will either succeed or fail. No Partial Results.

Elected Leader - messaging layer - Follower

Uses-
Zookeeper is used for higher level operations like Synchronization, Group Membersip, Ownership
HBase uses Zookeeper to track the status of the distributed data.
		 
Zookeeper is use to solve below problems-
1. Race Condition - When a perticular task is suppose to be done by one resource or node but it's allocated to two or more nodes then race condition is arised that which
                    resource will complete the task first.
		    
2. Deadlock - Two or more operations are waiting for eachother to complete.

3. Inconsistancy - It's partial or failure of process.

